# -Intersteller-Darwin-IV-Alien-Planet-
DISCLAIMER:The code is for educational purposes only. You can use it for educational purposes only not for commercial uses.   ░░╔══╗░░░░░░░░░░╔══╗░░ ░╚╣▐▐╠╝░░╔══╗░░╚╣▐▐╠╝░ ░░╚╦╦╝░░╚╣▌▌╠╝░░╚╦╦╝░░ ░░░╚╚░░░░╚╦╦╝░░░░╚╚░░░ ░░░░░░░░░░╝╝░░░░░░░░░░   Alien Planet is a 94-minute docufiction, originally airing on the Discovery Channel, about two internationally built robot probes searching for alien life on the fictional planet Darwin IV. It was based on the book Expedition, by sci-fi/fantasy artist and writer Wayne Douglas Barlowe, who was also executive producer on the special. It premiered on May 14, 2005. The show uses computer-generated imagery, which is interspersed with interviews from such notables as Stephen Hawking, George Lucas, Michio Kaku and Jack Horner. The show was filmed in Iceland and Mono Lake in California.  Darwin IV is a fictional planet 6.5 light years from the Earth, with two suns and 60% gravity. It was depicted in the series ‘Alien Planet’ based on Wayne Barlowe’s book Expedition. According to the story, after identifying Darwin IV as a world that could support life, Earth sends a pilot mission consisting of the mothership Von Braun and three probes: Balboa, Da Vinci and Newton. This unmanned fleet is responsible for finding and assessing any life forms on Darwin IV. Initially, the expectation is to find microscopic life, but the probes soon find themselves in the middle of a developed ecosystem teeming with life of all sizes. The viewer experiences Darwin IV through the eyes of the probes Ike (Newton) and Leo (Da Vinci), whose data are relayed back to the mothership and then communicated to Earth. The biological and atmospheric data from the probes and mothership are relayed to viewers through computer voice simulation and on-screen readouts. The drama on Darwin IV is motivated by real science missions, such as the NASA Origins Program and the NASA/JPL Planet-Finder Mission, as well as the European Space Agency’s Darwin Project.  Ever since watching E.T. the Extraterrestrial, aliens were one of the biggest fears I had as a child. This was because most aliens I had seen since then were those weirdly humanoid ones, which are intentionally designed to evoke the uncanny valley. This fear of being abducted by greys or Spielberg’s roasted gremlin subsided when I saw two things: Star Wars, with its light-hearted and imaginative alien life, and a 2005 documentary on Discovery Channel called Alien Planet. Especially the latter made me see the idea of alien life in a new, positive light and gave me hope that we might discover some of it one day. What young me did not realize at the time (because who reads credits anyway?) is that Alien Planet was based off a science-fiction book by painter Wayne Douglas Barlowe. In Expedition a wildlife illustrator goes on a journey to a mysterious and wild planet called Darwin IV and paints the local creatures in all their beauty while detailing his travels. This book was first published in 1990, which means that this year marks its thirtieth anniversary! To commemorate the occasion, Barlowe is now selling a reprint of the book on Echo Point Books. If you never had the chance to read it before, now is your time! Now how do I want to commemorate one of the most monumental works in speculative evolution? By playing armchair-scientist of course! One of the greatest strengths of Expedition is the great aura of mystery it not only creates but leaves behind about Darwin IV. After the first (and so far only) expedition we leave with more questions than we arrived with. This is what makes it feel almost real, as an actual first encounter with alien life would probably be just as if not more confusing. What I want to do in this post and its sequels is to seriously examine Darwin IV and the life on it in a semi-scientific way and maybe work out a few answers to its many mysteries. While I am doing this in part to put the knowledge I gained in studying Earth System Sciences to good use, my intention is also that we both learn something about real-life star systems, planets, geology and lifeforms in the process. This first post mainly concerns the orbital and geophysical characteristics of Darwin IV.
